add a page to discuss performance (#64)
Open-EO/openeo.org: documentation/1.0/developers/backends/performance.md

implementation. What it can do however, is avoiding API definitions that prevent an implementation from being efficient.
When openEO was designed, performance was one of the key design drivers, so here we try to explain how that is achieved.

### Bringing the processing to the data

Two evolutions created the need for an API designed for performance and scalability: EO programmes like Copernicus that 
pushed data volumes into the petabyte range, and a move towards ever larger cloud infrastructure and HPC processing capacity 
to analyze these volumes of data. OpenEO supports this by defining data access and processing into a single specification.
As a result, the openEO process graph allows the backend to choose any data access pattern that is optimal for 
the processing that is to be executed, and the dataset that is to be read.

A popular example of such a case, is infrastructures that store the data on the same machines that do the processing. 
In such a case, an openEO backend can choose to load and process the data directly on the machine that has the data stored.

> Another example is adjusting and aligning the data chunks for the processing to internal layout of the file format that 

Reviewer: > for the processing to internal layout
->
> for the processing to the internal layout

Author: updated

important performance and scalability implications.

The easiest way to understand this is to contrast it with a more traditional 'product-based' view of building workflows.
In a product or file based workflow, a process operates on a set of input files and generates a set of output files. Many
EO workflows have been written like this, but the consequence is that every process spends time on reading date into memory, and
writing it back to disk. Persistent storage is often the slowest component in a processing system, and thus these workflows
spend a lot of time on IO. In the openEO specification, a process transforms one datacube into another datacube.
Backend implementations are encouraged to avoid writing data to disk in between processing steps whenever possible. By
keeping the datacubes into memory, this avoids those costly IO operations.

Here it is important to note that openEO does not enforce or define how the datacube should look like on the backend. The 
datacube can be a set of files, or arrays in memory distributed over a cluster. These choices are left to the 
backend implementor, this guide only tries to highlight the possibilities.

> For scalability, the openEO processes clearly define along which set of dimension labels of the datacube they operate. When

Reviewer: > define along which set of dimension labels of the datacube they operate

I'm not completely sure I understand what you mean here. You mean "along which set of dimension" or "on which subset of dimension labels"? I guess the former.

Author: updated

a user writes a process graph, it should never instruct the backend to apply a black box algorithm or function on the 
entire datacube. For most algorithms, this is not necessary, and loading the complete datacube of a Copernicus mission at once

> is simply not possible. Hence, users run 'callbacks' over a 1-dimensional array, or even multidimensional arrays or 'chunks'

Reviewer 2: Again, as someone fairly new to openEO jargon, it is unclear to me what "callback" means here - is the idea to "chunk" an array of processing tasks into individual callables? If so, I think that wants to be explicitly described!

Reviewer: "callback" is meant to refer to the `reducer` argument in `reduce_dimension` or `process` argument in `apply_dimension`. In openEO these are called "processes", but I think that is too generic to be used as replacement for "callback" in this context. Maybe citing an example (e.g. `reducer` in `reduce_dimension`) could help in the text?

Author: I added a link to python client docs as I don't know of a better alternative.
@m-mohr  I would expect something here: https://openeo.org/documentation/1.0/developers/api/reference.html#section/Processes/Process-Graphs
But now it seems to be explained as 'user defined process', which I actually think of as something else.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, callback people complained about it because it is "javascript" so now it is called "user-defined process" in openEO terminology. Still not idea though, indeed. What we recently used more in the processes is "child process", I think.

Reviewer 3: Updated.

> is simply not possible. Hence, users run '[https://open-eo.github.io/openeo-python-client/processes.html#processes-with-child-callbacks](callbacks)' over a 1-dimensional array, or even multidimensional arrays or 'chunks'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is simply not possible. Hence, users run '[https://openeo.org/documentation/1.0/developers/api/reference.html#section/Processes/Process-Graphs](user-defined (child) processes)' over a 1-dimensional array, or even multidimensional arrays or 'chunks'
```

of the datacube. Based on this information, the backend is able to define both a data access and processing strategy that is
optimal for the given process graph.

> ## Process graph evaluation

Reviewer 2: Being fairly new to openEO, I'd associate the word "evaluation" with something that happens after processing, rather than upfront optimisations. Alternatives that come to mind: "Process graph fine-tuning", "Process graph pre-optimisation"

Reviewer: It's indeed not in the sense of "validation". Maybe "Process graph execution" is better

Author: changed to execution

Here we go a bit more into detail about how a backend evaluates a process graph. Again, this is not normative or
mandated by the specification, but rather an explanation of one way to achieve optimal performance.

In general, process graphs are first analyzed as a whole before the actual processing starts. The analysis phase serves
to reveal the optimal processing strategy and parameters. 

> These are a few examples of things that can be derived from a process graph and subsequent optimizations:

Reviewer 2: - Please correct me if I'm wrong, but these examples don't seem all that backend-specific - if that is the case, wouldn't we want to come up with a selection of backend-independent pre-optimisations (editing the process graph directly), publish these as an openeo library and link to that here? 
- Are there any other relevant repos to link here? (I hesitate to link to [openeo-odc](https://github.com/Open-EO/openeo-odc), because it isn't very readable)

Author: Actually, part of this is already part of openeo-python-driver which is a package that does not have too many dependencies on backend specific stuff.
I believe original authors of the odc backend simply choose to write and maintain their own basic process graph handling code, but there's indeed more opportunity to have shared libraries, especially for python related stuff.
Of course, most time is spent writing the actual processing engine, you can also reuse that, but then you don't run on dask anymore :-).
